ATBiblioList Manual

Product description

  ATBiblioList is an add-on module to Raphael Ritz's CMFBibliographyAT.

  The code is currently hosted at sourceforge, in the collective CVS
  repository.
  It will be migrated to the new collective subversion repository very
  soon.
  We don't plan to release the product before the first official release
  of CMFBibliographyAT.

  The main purpose of ATBiblioList is to let Plone portal users organize
  existing Bibliography References into lists that can be displayed
  (using standard or custom bibliographical styles) and exported.

  see README.txt for dependencies, installation instructions, and other
  basic informations.

Create a Bibliography List

  Bibliography Lists are implicitely addable by default.
  It means that they can be created from anywhere in the portal unless
  a portal administrator has changed that behavior.
  Preferably, those lists will be created by users in their own 'Home
  Directory' or 'Work Space'.
  To Add a Bibliography List to the portal, do as for any other Plone
  content Type: Use the 'Add content' menu or choose 'Bibliography List'
  and click 'Add' from the content page of the folder you want to add the
  list in.

Add Bibliography References to the list

  Once you created a Bibliography List and gave it a title (required),
  you can start adding Bibliography References to it.
  Note that in the 'edit' page of the list, there is a list called
  'Listed References' that should be empty at this time.
  Just below that empty list, there is a small search form from which you
  can search for Bibliography References that are stored in the portal.
  Simply fill the search field with search terms and click the 'search'
  button.
  If the search result is not empty, a new list will appear on the page
  displaying the matching Bibliography References. You can select from
  that list the ones that you want to add to your Bibliography List, and
  click the 'add to list' button.
  Note that this action actually saves the added references.
  It means that the 'cancel' button does not work for that action.
  This behavior is planned to be changed as soon as we have time for that.

Remove Bibliography References from the list

  Once you've added some Bibliography References to your Bibliography
  List, you can see them in the 'Listed References' list on the 'edit'
  page.
  If you need to remove one or more references, just select them and click
  the 'Remove' button.
  Note that as for adding references, this action actually saves the list.
  It means that the 'cancel' button does not work for that action.
  This behavior is planned to be changed as soon as we have time for that.

Display the Bibliography References

  Once you've created and populated your Bibliography List, you may want
  to have it rendered in a way that suits some publishing requirements.
  You can choose the way the list has to be rendered from its edit page.
  First, you can choose what Bibliographycal Style must be respected while
  displaying the list. The styles that are registered with the
  BibliographyList Tool are displayed First, then the ones that were
  defined Through The Web (see further in this manual to learn how to
  create new bibliography styles).
  After choosing the Bibliographycal Style, you can set the list type
  (bulleted, ordered, etc..).

Export Bibliography Lists

  CMFBibliographyAT lets you export/download an entire Bibliography
  Folder or any individual Bibliography Reference contained in such
  folder.
  If you want to export only a portion of the Bibliography References
  contained in one folder, or if you want to export a selection of
  Bibliography References that are not contained in the same folder, you
  can use ATBiblioList.
  You just have to create a list, select the Bibliography References that
  you want to export, click on the 'download' content tab and choose the
  format in which you want them to be exported.

Create new Bibliographycal Styles

  If you are not happy with the Bibliographycal Styles that are shipped
  with the product, you can create new ones. There are two ways of
  creating new Bibliographycal Styles. The easyest is Through The Web,
  creating Custom Bibliographycal Styles just as Plone content.
  The most powerful way is to write them as file sytem based python
  products that have to be registered with the BibliographyList Tool.

Create Custom (Through The Web) Bibliographycal Styles

  TTW Bibliographycal Styles are added to the portal the same way as for
  any portal content. Just notice that as the product is designed 'out of
  the box', you can add TTW Biblio Styles only in 'Bibref Custom Style
  Folders'. So first create a 'Bibref Custom Style Folder' in your Personal
  Folder, and navigate into it. Now you see that you can add to that
  folder two different content types: 'Bibref Custom Styles' and
  'Bibref Custom Style Sets'. First, lets add a 'Bibref Custom Style'.
  Once the Custom Style added, we see on its edit page the fields that can
  be edited. The first important field to edit is the 'Format' field.
  It is the field that determines what values will be displayed, how they
  will be diplayed (using which text format) and in which order.
  If Epoz is installed that field can be edited with wysiwyg support,
  else its content has to be valid (X)HTML.
  The following fields determine how different values have to be rendered 
  (do they have to be capitalized, etc).

  After clicking the 'Save' button, you are redirected to the 'view' page
  of your Biblio Style. On that page you can verify the result with an
  example of each Bibliography Reference Type handled by
  CMFBibliographyAT.

  You are now able to select your new Bibliographycal Style from the
  'edit' page of your Biblio List. If you do so, all your references will
  be displayed using that style. Now if you need to have Articles
  displayed using that style, and all other references displayed using
  another style, you can create in your 'Bibref Custom Style Folder' a
  'Bibref Custom Style Set'. That content type lets you define what style
  should be used for what bibliography reference type.

  Now you may ask yourself who will be able to use your Bibliographycal
  Styles or Style Sets. This is handled by the Workflow Tool.
  If someone has the 'View' perission on a Style or Styles Set,
  he/she'll be able to select it for displaying his/her bibliographycal 
  references list.

Write File System based Bibliographycal Styles

  The most powerful way to create a Bibliographycal Style is to write it
  as a Python product and integrate it to the BiblioList Tool. This
  requires that you know at least the Python basics.
  You can inspire yourself from the well called example
  'BibrefStyleExample' in the 'doc' directory.
  Once you have written your own Bibliographycal Style, move it to the
  Products folder of your Zope instance, restart Zope and browse to the
  'portal_bibliolist' tool at the root of your Plone instance. There you
  should be able to add your new Bibliographycal Style from the pulldown
  menu. If your Style respects the requirements for a quasi standard way
  of representing a bibliographycal reference, feel free to send it to us
  and we'll add it to the ones that are already shipped with
  ATBiblioList.